---
layout: post
title:      "Career != Server"
date:       2020-08-29 14:39:45 -0400
permalink:  whysoftwaredevelopment
---



I have been in the service industry for the last 20 years. I am originally from California, I moved to new york in 2008 and have been here ever since. I made the leap to New York because I wanted to experience what most of my friends had with going to college. Moving somewhere completely new with no friends and make my way there. I was able to do that through working at a popular coffee company. I was able to quickly transfer to a store in New York from California. I worked for about a year before being promoted to an assistant manager. I worked the job because it served a need, and got me where I wanted to go, but I had no real "passion" for coffee, something they always stressed. I left the company a few years later as I decided that the manager position that I was ultimately working towards was not my "passion". I took a survival job at a restaurant in Tribecca, that was supposed to sustain me until I figured out what I wanted to do. Life moved fast. Over the next seven years, my girlfriend, who I had met during my time at the popular coffee company, became my fiancé, then my wife, and now the mother of my two girls. In that time, I had worked nearly every position in the restaurant, and been promoted to manager, which in the restaurant industry is almost a demotion (that's another blog entirely), and then demoted myself back to a part time server when my kids were born. Then the pandemic hit.
 
 I saw NYC closing, and took the rest of my paternity leave, thinking it would be over in a few months and I could return to work. A week later all restaurants closed, there was not a job for me to go back to. So, I focused on being at home with my kids, tried to get some routines scheduled and started some online tabletop games. I started working on customizing games on a web platform called roll20 I would look at the macros and the API's trying to tweak them at a rudimentary level. After talking to one of the other players that I gamed with, I decided to look into coding, as he did a few years earlier. After a few days of research into coding I realize, I no longer want to be a server. I no longer want a survival job, I want a career. While I felt I was a good server, it never felt like much of an accomplishment.  I want the ability to be creative  and feel like I contribute a skill. On top of that, I enjoyed my brief foray into the world of coding via the virtual tabletops that I use for hobby gaming.  


 I looked at a variety of schools before deciding on flatiron, the flexibility of being a student on the schedule that I dictate was the deciding factor. I take care of my girls during the day, and code at night. I pitched this to my wife, and she was supportive. I want to apply to the school, but first I want to get some coding exposure before I have an interview, so I started the bootcamp and logged a decent number of hours in a few weeks. It has me apply, and the appointment I scheduled to talk about the school turns into an interview and in a few days, I am in! I set up a schedule for myself and start figuring out when I can code. Then my 8-month-old had a sleep regression.


Sleep regression is when a baby after months of sleeping moderately well, all of a sudden stops sleeping well. My "coding time" of 10pm-1am is constantly interrupted. Panic sets in, how am I going to figure out school for the first time in years and take care of an angry tired baby. I analyzed the problems I had and tried to come up with a solution. I had to get my kids ready for bed and sleeping through the night before school starts. I made a detailed schedule, and sticking to it, sleep trained my infant, and got my toddler quiet time during the day. It took a few weeks but the family has taken to it, so now I have time during the day and time in evening. Feeling reinvigorated with sleeping children, and a schedule that helps the whole family, I am now excited to start school. So much so, that I am writing this during quiet time.

